+++
title = "Blogroll"
date = "2024-11-15"
draft = false
outputs = ['html', 'gemtext']
slug = "blogroll"
+++

Some of the personal websites and blogs I enjoy across the web. Emphasis on
"some".

The Gemini version of this page (linked in the footer) showcases gemlogs and
phlogs I enjoy.

Descriptions are written by myself based on my own experience gathered from
before I have decided to include someone in this list. I am not affiliated with
any of the services, companies, or products mentioned unless noted otherwise.

I always love to discover more blogs and personal sites. If you'd like to
nominate one (preferably, that isn't your own), please do not hesitate to
[contact](/about/) me.

If you'd like to correct any mistakes or would like to be removed, feel free to
update this page yourself on the [GitHub](https://github.com/hedyhli/site) or
[SourceHut](https://git.sr.ht/~hedy/site) repositories, or [contact](/about/)
me.

Entries are sorted in reverse-alphabetical order.

---

<dl>
  <dt><a href="https://sloum.colorfield.space/">sloum</a></dt>
  <dd>

sloum is a member of a number of non-tilde pubnixes such as
[rawtext.club](https://rawtext.club/) and Circumlunar.space. He writes
software, sometimes in his own languages, and maintains Gemini and Gopher
presences in addition to the WWW one. He blogs about many things other than
technology or the internet.

The website I linked is hosted on his own pubnix,
[colorfield.space](gopher://colorfield.space), which as far as I'm aware, is
only accessible via Gopher.
  </dd>
  <dt><a href="https://seirdy.one/">Seirdy</a></dt>
  <dd>

Seirdy's site is the source of inspiration for many aspects of my own site,
including [meta pages](https://home.hedy.dev/posts/meta-pages/), accessibility
and other design choices. They write about fairly technical topics on their blog
which you might have already stumbled upon through link-aggregator sites.

In addition to their long-form articles, they also keep a log of shorter, more
informal posts in a Notes page, and keep a lot of their public Bookmarks.
  </dd>
  <dt><a href="https://protesilaos.com/">Protesilaos Stavrou</a></dt>
  <dd>

Protesilaos ("prot") is a prominent contributor to Emacs and Emacs packages. He
is the author of the [Modus themes](https://protesilaos.com/emacs/modus-themes)
which was used for syntax highlighting on this site. He blogs about technology,
philosophy, politics, and life and he also hosts documentation of his Emacs
packages on his website. He has a YouTube channel where he talks about
philosophy, and his hut, and shares Emacs screencasts.
  </dd>
  <dt><a href="https://ploum.net/">Ploum</a></dt>
  <dd>

Ploum blogs about the internet, practices, and culture and is also a fiction
writer. He has a French [wikipedia
page](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lionel_Dricot) and has both English and
French blog posts.
  </dd>
  <dt><a href="https://baty.net/">Jack Baty</a></dt>
  <dd>

Jack writes about technology, his own website, workflows, among other topics. He
also has a daily journal at [daily.baty.net](https://daily.baty.net/). Jack has
been blogging for a long time and its set up has changed many times; as of
writing, his blog is currently powered by Ghost.
  </dd>
  <dt><a href="https://bower.sh/">erock</a></dt>
  <dd>

erock blogs about technology and philosophy. He is the author of
[neovimcraft](https://neovimcraft.com/) and [pico.sh](https://pico.sh), the
latter of which provides a blog hosting service, [prose.sh](https://prose.sh)
which also hosts his own blog.
  </dd>
  <dt><a href="https://arne.me/">Arne</a></dt>
  <dd>

Arne's blog has inspired me in many ways, most notably ["Why You Should Write
Your Own Static Site Generator"](https://arne.me/blog/write-your-own-ssg). Arne
also has a [newsletter](https://arne.me/weekly/) where they share interesting
links on the internet.
  </dd>
</dl>

